README.md, before:

# AEM CLI

[![Tests](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![CI](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

A command-line tool for Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) content management and cleanup operations.

## Overview

AEM CLI provides utilities for managing AEM content repositories, with a focus on cleaning and maintaining `.content.xml` files and transferring JCR content between filesystem and server. The tool helps developers and content managers automate common AEM maintenance tasks.

## Features

### Content Cleanup
- **Remove AEM metadata properties** from `.content.xml` files
- **Flexible property selection** - use default AEM properties or specify custom ones
- **Recursive processing** - handles entire directory trees
- **Dry-run mode** - preview changes before applying them
- **Detailed reporting** - see exactly what properties are removed

#### Default Properties Removed
The tool removes common AEM system properties that are typically not needed in source control:

- `cq:isDelivered`, `cq:lastModified`, `cq:lastModifiedBy`
- `cq:lastReplicated*`, `cq:lastReplicatedBy*`, `cq:lastReplicationAction*`
- `jcr:isCheckedOut`, `jcr:lastModified`, `jcr:lastModifiedBy`, `jcr:uuid`

### Repository Content Transfer (repo)
- **FTP-like tool for JCR content** with support for diffing
- **Checkout** - initial checkout of server content to filesystem
- **Put** - upload local filesystem content to server
- **Get** - download server content to local filesystem
- **Status** - list status of modified/added/deleted files
- **Diff** - show differences between local and server content
- **Configuration support** - `.repo` files for server/credentials
- **Package-based transfers** - uses AEM package manager HTTP API

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager

### Install from Source
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd aemcli

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

### Content Cleanup Command

#### Basic Usage
```bash
# Clean using default AEM properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content

# Preview changes without modifying files
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --dry-run
```

#### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Use only custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content cq:customProp jcr:myProp

# Combine default and custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default cq:customProp

# Explicitly use default properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default
```

#### Options
- `--dry-run` - Show what would be changed without modifying files
- `--default` - Include default AEM properties in removal list
- `--help` - Show detailed help and examples

### Repository Content Transfer Command

The `repo` command provides FTP-like functionality for transferring JCR content between the filesystem and AEM server.

#### Basic Usage
```bash
# Initial checkout from server
aemcli repo checkout /apps/myproject

# Upload changes to server
cd jcr_root/apps/myproject
aemcli repo put

# Download changes from server
aemcli repo get

# Check status
aemcli repo status
# or
aemcli repo st

# Show differences
aemcli repo diff
```

#### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Use custom server and credentials
aemcli repo status -s http://localhost:8080 -u user:password

# Force operations without confirmation
aemcli repo put -f

# Quiet mode (minimal output)
aemcli repo get -q

# Show server-side changes
aemcli repo serverdiff

# Show local changes
aemcli repo localdiff
```

#### Configuration Files

**`.repo` file** - Place in checkout or any parent directory:
```
server=http://server.com:8080
credentials=user:password
```

**`.repoignore` file** - Place in jcr_root directory to exclude files:
```
*.tmp
.cache/
*.log
```

#### Available Commands
- `checkout <jcr-path>` - Initial checkout of server content
- `put [path]` - Upload local content to server
- `get [path]` - Download server content to local
- `status [path]` - Show status of files (alias: `st`)
- `diff [path]` - Show local differences vs server
- `localdiff [path]` - Show local changes
- `serverdiff [path]` - Show server changes

#### Status Legend
- `M` - Modified
- `A` - Added locally / deleted remotely
- `D` - Deleted locally / added remotely
- `~ fd` - Conflict: local file vs. remote directory
- `~ df` - Conflict: local directory vs. remote file

### Examples

#### Example 1: Clean AEM Project
```bash
# Clean all .content.xml files in an AEM project
aemcli content-cleanup content/sites-franklin-commerce --dry-run

# Apply the changes
aemcli content-cleanup content/sites-franklin-commerce
```

#### Example 2: Custom Properties
```bash
# Remove only specific custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content cq:myCustomProp jcr:tempData

# Remove default properties plus custom ones
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default cq:myCustomProp
```

#### Example 3: Preview Mode
```bash
# See what would be changed without modifying files
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --dry-run
```

#### Example 4: Repository Workflow
```bash
# Start from scratch with a server project
aemcli repo checkout /apps/myproject

# Make local changes
cd jcr_root/apps/myproject
vim .content.xml

# Check what changed
aemcli repo status

# Upload changes
aemcli repo put

# Later, download server changes
aemcli repo get

# Show differences
aemcli repo diff
```

## Development

### Project Structure
```
aem-cli/
├── src/aemcli/           # Main package
│   ├── cli.py           # CLI entry point
│   └── commands/        # Command modules
│       ├── content_cleanup.py
│       └── repo.py
├── tests/               # Test suite
│   ├── test_content_cleanup.py
│   ├── test_repo.py
│   └── test_content/    # Test data
├── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
├── pyproject.toml      # Project configuration
└── README.md           # This file
```

### Running Tests
```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

# Run all tests
python -m pytest

# Run with verbose output
python -m pytest -v

# Run with coverage
python -m pytest --cov=aemcli
```

### Code Quality
```bash
# Format code
black src/ tests/

# Lint code
flake8 src/ tests/

# Type checking
mypy src/
```

### Local Development Checks
Run the same checks locally that GitHub Actions will run:

```bash
# Quick checks (syntax and tests)
./scripts/run_checks.sh

# Full checks (includes linting, formatting, type checking, security)
./scripts/run_checks.sh --full
```

### Pre-commit Hooks (Optional)
Set up pre-commit hooks to run checks automatically before each commit:

```bash
# Install pre-commit hooks
pre-commit install

# Run hooks on all files (optional)
pre-commit run --all-files
```

## CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Two workflows are configured:

### Test Workflow (`test.yml`)
- **Triggers**: Every push and pull request
- **Purpose**: Quick feedback on test results and basic linting
- **Actions**:
  - Runs tests with pytest
  - Performs basic syntax and error checking with flake8
  - Uses Python 3.11 on Ubuntu

### CI Workflow (`ci.yml`)
- **Triggers**: Push/PR to main, master, or develop branches
- **Purpose**: Comprehensive testing and code quality checks
- **Actions**:
  - **Multi-version testing**: Tests against Python 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12
  - **Code quality**: Runs flake8, black, and mypy
  - **Test coverage**: Generates coverage reports and uploads to Codecov
  - **Security scanning**: Runs safety and bandit security checks
  - **Dependency caching**: Speeds up builds by caching pip dependencies

### Workflow Features
- **Parallel execution**: Test and security jobs run in parallel
- **Caching**: Pip dependencies are cached for faster builds
- **Coverage reporting**: Automatic upload to Codecov (optional)
- **Security checks**: Automated vulnerability scanning
- **Multi-Python support**: Ensures compatibility across Python versions

## Dependencies

### Core Dependencies
- **click>=8.0** - Command-line interface framework
- **requests>=2.28** - HTTP library for AEM API calls

### Development Dependencies
- **pytest>=7.0** - Testing framework
- **pytest-cov>=4.0** - Test coverage reporting
- **black>=23.0** - Code formatting
- **flake8>=6.0** - Code linting
- **mypy>=1.0** - Static type checking

### Optional Dependencies
- **colorama>=0.4.6** - Cross-platform colored terminal text
- **rich>=13.0** - Rich text and beautiful formatting

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests for new functionality
5. Run the test suite (`python -m pytest`)
6. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
7. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
8. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Use type hints where appropriate

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For questions, issues, or contributions, please:
1. Check existing issues in the repository
2. Create a new issue with detailed information
3. Include steps to reproduce any bugs
4. Provide example files when relevant

## Changelog

### v0.2.0
- Added `repo` command for JCR content transfer
- FTP-like functionality for AEM content management
- Support for checkout, put, get, status, and diff operations
- Configuration file support (.repo, .repoignore)
- Package-based transfers using AEM package manager API

### v0.1.0
- Initial release
- Content cleanup command with flexible property selection
- Support for default AEM properties
- Dry-run mode for safe testing
- Comprehensive test suite

Commit message:

Update README.md to include new commands for content cleanup and repository transfer
- Added sections for `content-cleanup` and `repo` commands to provide users with clear descriptions of their functionalities.
- Enhanced documentation to improve usability and understanding of AEM CLI features.

README.md, after:

# AEM CLI

[![Tests](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![CI](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bpauli/aemcli/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

A command-line tool for Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) content management and cleanup operations.

## Overview

AEM CLI provides utilities for managing AEM content repositories, with a focus on cleaning and maintaining `.content.xml` files and transferring JCR content between filesystem and server. The tool helps developers and content managers automate common AEM maintenance tasks.

## Commands

- **[content-cleanup](#content-cleanup-command)** - Clean AEM metadata properties from `.content.xml` files
- **[repo](#repository-content-transfer-command)** - FTP-like tool for JCR content transfer between filesystem and server

## Features

### Content Cleanup
- **Remove AEM metadata properties** from `.content.xml` files
- **Flexible property selection** - use default AEM properties or specify custom ones
- **Recursive processing** - handles entire directory trees
- **Dry-run mode** - preview changes before applying them
- **Detailed reporting** - see exactly what properties are removed

#### Default Properties Removed
The tool removes common AEM system properties that are typically not needed in source control:

- `cq:isDelivered`, `cq:lastModified`, `cq:lastModifiedBy`
- `cq:lastReplicated*`, `cq:lastReplicatedBy*`, `cq:lastReplicationAction*`
- `jcr:isCheckedOut`, `jcr:lastModified`, `jcr:lastModifiedBy`, `jcr:uuid`

### Repository Content Transfer (repo)
- **FTP-like tool for JCR content** with support for diffing
- **Checkout** - initial checkout of server content to filesystem
- **Put** - upload local filesystem content to server
- **Get** - download server content to local filesystem
- **Status** - list status of modified/added/deleted files
- **Diff** - show differences between local and server content
- **Configuration support** - `.repo` files for server/credentials
- **Package-based transfers** - uses AEM package manager HTTP API

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager

### Install from Source
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd aemcli

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

### Content Cleanup Command

#### Basic Usage
```bash
# Clean using default AEM properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content

# Preview changes without modifying files
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --dry-run
```

#### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Use only custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content cq:customProp jcr:myProp

# Combine default and custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default cq:customProp

# Explicitly use default properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default
```

#### Options
- `--dry-run` - Show what would be changed without modifying files
- `--default` - Include default AEM properties in removal list
- `--help` - Show detailed help and examples

### Repository Content Transfer Command

The `repo` command provides FTP-like functionality for transferring JCR content between the filesystem and AEM server.

#### Basic Usage
```bash
# Initial checkout from server
aemcli repo checkout /apps/myproject

# Upload changes to server
cd jcr_root/apps/myproject
aemcli repo put

# Download changes from server
aemcli repo get

# Check status
aemcli repo status
# or
aemcli repo st

# Show differences
aemcli repo diff
```

#### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Use custom server and credentials
aemcli repo status -s http://localhost:8080 -u user:password

# Force operations without confirmation
aemcli repo put -f

# Quiet mode (minimal output)
aemcli repo get -q

# Show server-side changes
aemcli repo serverdiff

# Show local changes
aemcli repo localdiff
```

#### Configuration Files

**`.repo` file** - Place in checkout or any parent directory:
```
server=http://server.com:8080
credentials=user:password
```

**`.repoignore` file** - Place in jcr_root directory to exclude files:
```
*.tmp
.cache/
*.log
```

#### Available Commands
- `checkout <jcr-path>` - Initial checkout of server content
- `put [path]` - Upload local content to server
- `get [path]` - Download server content to local
- `status [path]` - Show status of files (alias: `st`)
- `diff [path]` - Show local differences vs server
- `localdiff [path]` - Show local changes
- `serverdiff [path]` - Show server changes

#### Status Legend
- `M` - Modified
- `A` - Added locally / deleted remotely
- `D` - Deleted locally / added remotely
- `~ fd` - Conflict: local file vs. remote directory
- `~ df` - Conflict: local directory vs. remote file

### Examples

#### Example 1: Clean AEM Project
```bash
# Clean all .content.xml files in an AEM project
aemcli content-cleanup content/sites-franklin-commerce --dry-run

# Apply the changes
aemcli content-cleanup content/sites-franklin-commerce
```

#### Example 2: Custom Properties
```bash
# Remove only specific custom properties
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content cq:myCustomProp jcr:tempData

# Remove default properties plus custom ones
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --default cq:myCustomProp
```

#### Example 3: Preview Mode
```bash
# See what would be changed without modifying files
aemcli content-cleanup /path/to/content --dry-run
```

#### Example 4: Repository Workflow
```bash
# Start from scratch with a server project
aemcli repo checkout /apps/myproject

# Make local changes
cd jcr_root/apps/myproject
vim .content.xml

# Check what changed
aemcli repo status

# Upload changes
aemcli repo put

# Later, download server changes
aemcli repo get

# Show differences
aemcli repo diff
```

## Development

### Project Structure
```
aem-cli/
├── src/aemcli/           # Main package
│   ├── cli.py           # CLI entry point
│   └── commands/        # Command modules
│       ├── content_cleanup.py
│       └── repo.py
├── tests/               # Test suite
│   ├── test_content_cleanup.py
│   ├── test_repo.py
│   └── test_content/    # Test data
├── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
├── pyproject.toml      # Project configuration
└── README.md           # This file
```

### Running Tests
```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

# Run all tests
python -m pytest

# Run with verbose output
python -m pytest -v

# Run with coverage
python -m pytest --cov=aemcli
```

### Code Quality
```bash
# Format code
black src/ tests/

# Lint code
flake8 src/ tests/

# Type checking
mypy src/
```

### Local Development Checks
Run the same checks locally that GitHub Actions will run:

```bash
# Quick checks (syntax and tests)
./scripts/run_checks.sh

# Full checks (includes linting, formatting, type checking, security)
./scripts/run_checks.sh --full
```

### Pre-commit Hooks (Optional)
Set up pre-commit hooks to run checks automatically before each commit:

```bash
# Install pre-commit hooks
pre-commit install

# Run hooks on all files (optional)
pre-commit run --all-files
```

## CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Two workflows are configured:

### Test Workflow (`test.yml`)
- **Triggers**: Every push and pull request
- **Purpose**: Quick feedback on test results and basic linting
- **Actions**:
  - Runs tests with pytest
  - Performs basic syntax and error checking with flake8
  - Uses Python 3.11 on Ubuntu

### CI Workflow (`ci.yml`)
- **Triggers**: Push/PR to main, master, or develop branches
- **Purpose**: Comprehensive testing and code quality checks
- **Actions**:
  - **Multi-version testing**: Tests against Python 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12
  - **Code quality**: Runs flake8, black, and mypy
  - **Test coverage**: Generates coverage reports and uploads to Codecov
  - **Security scanning**: Runs safety and bandit security checks
  - **Dependency caching**: Speeds up builds by caching pip dependencies

### Workflow Features
- **Parallel execution**: Test and security jobs run in parallel
- **Caching**: Pip dependencies are cached for faster builds
- **Coverage reporting**: Automatic upload to Codecov (optional)
- **Security checks**: Automated vulnerability scanning
- **Multi-Python support**: Ensures compatibility across Python versions

## Dependencies

### Core Dependencies
- **click>=8.0** - Command-line interface framework
- **requests>=2.28** - HTTP library for AEM API calls

### Development Dependencies
- **pytest>=7.0** - Testing framework
- **pytest-cov>=4.0** - Test coverage reporting
- **black>=23.0** - Code formatting
- **flake8>=6.0** - Code linting
- **mypy>=1.0** - Static type checking

### Optional Dependencies
- **colorama>=0.4.6** - Cross-platform colored terminal text
- **rich>=13.0** - Rich text and beautiful formatting

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests for new functionality
5. Run the test suite (`python -m pytest`)
6. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
7. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
8. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Use type hints where appropriate

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For questions, issues, or contributions, please:
1. Check existing issues in the repository
2. Create a new issue with detailed information
3. Include steps to reproduce any bugs
4. Provide example files when relevant

## Changelog

### v0.2.0
- Added `repo` command for JCR content transfer
- FTP-like functionality for AEM content management
- Support for checkout, put, get, status, and diff operations
- Configuration file support (.repo, .repoignore)
- Package-based transfers using AEM package manager API

### v0.1.0
- Initial release
- Content cleanup command with flexible property selection
- Support for default AEM properties
- Dry-run mode for safe testing
- Comprehensive test suite
